Israel's Army Chief Hai halevi has
warned that the war with Hamas will last
for quote many more months in a
televised address tevi said Israel is
fighting in a complex environment with
no magical Solutions or shortcuts the
remarks come as the Israeli military
intensifies operations in the Gaza Strip
where the death toll is approaching
21,000 unidentified human corpses
wrapped up lined up and laid to rest in
a mass
grave it's become a common site in
Gaza the Hamas run Health Ministry
claims that Israeli forces returned the
bodies after first taking them from
morgs and Graves to check there were no
hostages among
them Israel says it is now fighting on
multiple fronts not just inside
Gaza this footage reportedly shows the
Downing of a quote hostile drone by an
Israeli fighter jet over the red sea
Iranian backed houthi rebels in Yemen
claimed responsibility for the drones
which attacked the Israeli Port City of
aot as well as cargo vessels in the
areas the Yi houthi Armed Forces
confirmed the continuation of their
operations in the Red Sea and the
Arabian Sea against Israeli ships or
those heading to the ports of occupied
Palestine as International pressure
mounts on Israel prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu outlined three prerequisites
for pce in an article for the Wall
Street
Journal the destruction of Hamas the
demilitarization of Gaza and the
deradicalization of Palestinian
[Music]
Society his words are the closest yet to
a tangible vision for an end to the
war but with increased attacks from
Hezbollah from the North and the houthis
from the south the conflict appears to
keep on
escalating our correspondent Yan Philip
Schultz is standing by for us in
Jerusalem y Philip Israel says it's
fighting a multi-front war against
multiple adversaries how worried are
Israelis that this war could still
escalate into a larger regional
conflict people here are worried uh
Israel's defense minister stressed that
Israel is already fighting a multif
front war and he mentioned seven sectors
throughout the region as you know fears
regarding a regional escalation have
been there since the beginning of the
war but a few incidences in in the past
days have even increased this fear once
again at the so-called blue line between
Israel and Lebanon there have almost
been daily battles between Israeli the
Israeli Army and the powerful Iran
backed hisbah militia also other
iran-backed militia such as the houthis
in Yemen have intensified their attacks
especially in the Red Sea uh region and
a senior Iranian official was killed
close to Damascus and Iran has all
already said that it will take revenge
so a lot of incidences and people take
them very seriously and they are
worried Israel's military Chief has
suggested that the war could last for
many months Yan philli what are the
implications of
that well the future of Gaza is
completely uncertain from a human
humanitarian perspective the continued
fighting will obviously mean even more
human suffering we are already talking
about a quarter of the population
Starving in Gaza according to new UN
figures and from a political perspective
there's also no plan inside prime
minister Netanyahu said that Israel
should have what he calls the overall
security responsibility of Gaza for the
foreseeable future and she also spoke
about uh the demilitarization and
complete
deradicalization of the Palestinian
Society but many observers have already
replied uh that this is not a very
realistic not a very workable plan and
that they are concerned that the
continued fighting will make a political
solution just more
complicated yeah Philip thank you very
much that was our correspondent Yan
Philip Schultz in
Jerusalem the United Nations has
repeatedly warned of an increasingly
dire humanitarian situation in the war
torn Gaza Strip now the UN has appointed
a humanitarian coordinator to boost Aid
to the territory following a security
Council resolution sigid KAG a former
Dutch Deputy Premier and mid East expert
will begin her role as senior
humanitarian and reconstruction
coordinator for Gaza in January anuary
her task will be to coordinate Monitor
and verify humanitarian relief
deliveries since Israel began its Siege
of Gaza its over 2 million residents
have faced severe shortages of water
food Fuel and
Medicine enter the for more on this we
can talk now to Sama Hadid she is head
of advocacy Communications and media at
the Norwegian Refugee Council and joins
us from Sydney uh thanks for being with
us s what can we expect from the un's
new relief coordinator for Gaza how much
can she do to improve the humanitarian
situation
there the establishment of this
coordinator role is welcomed um but I
think that her uh Powers around this
will be limited she has to have the
support of course of Israel uh and she
will face uh difficulties and and
problem s and challenges uh in doing
this role uh but this is why we're
urging all uh parties to the conflict
and states to support her uh to urgently
scale up aid aid needs to increase uh to
support the desperate population in Gaza
and I think the priorities would include
increasing fuel to support hospitals
bakeries water pumps uh but also uh
allowing commercial Goods to enter Gaza
to restore the markets to support the
starving population but the only real
meaningful way to scale up Aid is to
have a ceasefire in place because Aid
workers cannot operate under the current
conditions they cannot do their jobs
effectively and safely whilst being
bombed and shelled on an ongoing basis
and so that's why we support the UN
secretary General's call for the need uh
for an urgent ceasefire which is crucial
to scaling up a right now you mentioned
hunger in in the Gaza Strip well
according to the UN a quarter of the
population in Gaza is starving how much
Aid is being delivered to the territory
at the
moment the aid that's being delivered at
the moment is still minimal it's not
enough it's nowhere near enough to meet
the dire needs we're seeing across Gaza
and now with the reports
indicating that there is a high risk of
famine in Gaza uh we urgently need Aid
to be scaled up but I think that it also
points to uh the way in which Israel is
using starvation as a weapon of the war
of of this War uh which is prohibited
under international law and we have yet
to see any real condemnation from
government allies of Israel on the way
uh that it's using starvation um and it
this is leading to a catastrophic
situation uh on the ground where
civilians are not only being bombed to
death but are now being starved as well
and so this needs to end and needs to be
condemned talk to us about displacement
you work for a refugee Council nearly 2
million people have been displaced
within Gaza already during this conflict
what what will happen with gaza's
population if this war drags on for
months what we fear is that uh with now
Israel's further expansion of its ground
operation in southern Gaza that more and
more people will be uh driven out of
Gaza pushed towards the Border uh of
Egypt um and will be pushed to move
across borders uh to seek uh safety uh
from the atrocities taking place in Gaza
Israel's continued bombardment and its
Siege uh it's wide widespread
destruction of Gaza has made Gaza
unlivable and this is forcing uh people
to to move towards tiny Pockets uh in
the South where safety is also not
guaranteed what's also worrying is that
most recently the Israeli Prime Minister
has made comments suggesting that he
would facilitate uh the migration and
transfer of Palestinians from Gaza and
this raises the risks of uh forcible
displacement and forcible transfer of
the population from Gaza which would be
a serious breach of international law
and an atrocity crime uh any attempts by
Israel to deport or permanently displace
Palestinians from Gaza must be prevented
and
condemned s thank you very much for
talking with us that was s Hadid head of
advocacy Communications and media at the
Norwegian Refugee
Council